# Release History

### 0.4.0 / Unreleased

This is an important update that includes a number of fixes and brings the
library up to date with the latest OpenCensus specification.

Backward-incompatible changes:

* Local parent span's sampling decision is propagated to children by default, to match the current sampling spec.
* It is no longer possible to change a sampling decision after a SpanBuilder has been created, to match the current sampling spec.
* Renamed MaxQPS sampler to RateLimiting, and modified the implementation to match the current spec.
* `true` or `false` may be passed as a sampler, as shortcuts for AlwaysSample or NeverSample.
* Standard samplers are now thread-safe.
* HTTP status codes are properly translated to OpenCensus status codes, in particular for spans generated by the Faraday and Rack middleware.
* Faraday and Rack middleware produce attributes matching the OpenCensus HTTP spec instead of the Stackdriver Trace service spec. The Stackdriver exporter now translates these attributes accordingly.
* Update standard trace context HTTP header to "traceparent" following updated spec.

Other fixes:

* Allow requiring "opencensus/trace" directly.
* Return SpanContext objects when block not given.
* FaradayMiddleware closes span if Faraday raises an exception.

### 0.3.1 / 2018-04-13

* Clean unneeded files from the gem

### 0.3.0 / 2018-03-26

* SpanContext#build_contained_spans honors sampling bit.
* Use AlwaysSample as the default sampler.
* Support the Span.kind field.

### 0.2.2 / 2018-03-09

* Railtie now adds the middleware at the end of the stack by default, and provides a config that can customize the position
* Provided a multi exporter
* Document exporter interface
* Fix some broken links in the documentation

### 0.2.1 / 2018-03-05

* Clarify Ruby version requirement (2.2+)
* Fix exceptions in the config library on Ruby 2.2 and 2.3.
* Automatically require opencensus base library from standard integrations.

### 0.2.0 / 2018-02-13

* Span creation sets the "same_process_as_parent_span" field if possible.
* The "stack_trace_hash_id" field was missing from the interfaces. Fixed.
* Nullability of a few fields did not match the proto specs. Fixed.
* Fixed some documentation errors and omissions.

### 0.1.0 / 2018-01-12

Initial release of the core library, including:

* Trace interfaces
* Rack integration
* Rails integration
* Faraday integration
* Logging exporter
